Following their return to Earth, the Apollo 11 crew received widespread international acclaim. On August 13, 1969, astronauts Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin, and Michael Collins were honored with ticker-tape parades in New York City and Chicago, with an estimated six million people lining the streets. In New York the parade started at Bowling Green going down Broadway to City Hall where Mayor John Lindsay greeted them and ended at the United Nations headquarters. Broadway was even temporarily renamed for that day to "Apollo Way". In Chicago the parade went to the Loop and culminated at the Chicago Civic Center where the astronauts and local officials spoke to the crowd. That evening, a state dinner was held in Los Angeles at the Century Plaza Hotel to commemorate the historic achievement. The event was attended by members of Congress, 44 state governors, Chief Justice of the United States Warren E. Burger and his predecessor Earl Warren, as well as ambassadors from 83 nations. President Richard Nixon and Vice President Spiro Agnew awarded each astronaut the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian honor in the United States. On September 16, the astronauts addressed a joint session of Congress, where they presented two American flags—one to the House of Representatives and one to the Senate—that had traveled to the lunar surface aboard Eagle. One of the mission flags carried aboard the flight—the Flag of American Samoa—was later displayed at the Jean P. Haydon Museum in Pago Pago, the capital of American Samoa, recognizing the territory's support role as a recovery staging area. Numerous countries and organizations honored the Moon landing by issuing special commemorative items. These included postage stamps, coins, medals, plaques, and magazine features. TIME, National Geographic, LIFE, and dozens of international publications featured the astronauts on their covers. Many of these commemoratives are now held in public and private collections, and some were placed aboard later Apollo missions in symbolic tribute. Additionally, the success of Apollo 11 contributed to a brief spike in interest in science and technology education, often referred to as the "Apollo effect", influencing a generation of engineers and scientists.